Module Mechanics
================

* Submission Summary
    * Assignment 1 - Monday 11th December
        * How to release
    * Assignment 2 - Monday 8th January
* Class feedback on Assignment 2
    * Very little so far
    * Caution! This is universally where most students loose marks!
    * "Explain the problem this feature is trying to solve"
        * So far I see no evidence of this
            * e.g. 'Middleware is Modular' is not enough! - this does is not a 'problem', so how can it be solved?
* Module feedback form
    * [JISC - 2023-24 Programming Frameworks and Languages (U14465)](https://canterbury.onlinesurveys.ac.uk/pfl_23-24)


Engineering Stories
===================

Objectives
----------

* Understand some case studies of how tech is used in industry
    * (Many of the concepts/tech from this module)
* Understand the context professional developers can work in
    * (Range of problems, communication, capacity)
* Understand the skill level that professional developers are expected to work at
    * (interview coding question)

Thoughts
--------

* Tech keeps changing but fundamental computing concepts always remain
* Business's don't quite know what development actually is and need help understanding it
* Creativity is limitless


Interview
---------

Get ready to code at a whiteboard

* Get a page of A4 and a pen
* As a pair - attempt to explain a solution to one of these to the other
    * [MaxProfit](https://github.com/calaldees/TeachProgramming/blob/master/teachprogramming/static/projects/mini/max_profit.md)
    * [DigitWord](https://github.com/calaldees/TeachProgramming/blob/master/teachprogramming/static/projects/mini/digit_word.md)


Bug Stories
===========

ISS deployment (My Friends recent story Nov 2023)
--------------

* Problem
    * Service deployed with [Internet Information Services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/iis/get-started/introduction-to-iis/introduction-to-iis-architecture)
    * For 1 in 15ish users, the system would strangely fail with a 403 generated by IIS
    * From that point on, the user could not use any services until all cookies had been cleared - something a novice user can't really do
    * The server logged all connection traffic and the logs show that the developer was not returning a 403
    * The network team said the 403 is generated from IIS which your server is running on, check again
    * Very difficult - because the bug was sporadic and replied on a user reporting this - most users did not report and just gave up
* Task
    * TASK: Discuss in pairs where you think the error/problem might be
    * TASK: Share ideas with group - justify your reasoning

<details>

* A firewall service somewhere in the network chain (also run on IIS) was failing a filtering rule. It was scanning requests for `--` as a form of SQL injection attack. The user authentication cookie was base64 encoded. It by chance the users cookie had `--` in it, the whole request would be dropped and a 403 would be returned by the firewall. As the firewall return was the default 403 ISS error page, this misdirected people think it was the developer of the service (who was also using ISS). The request was made to the same IP, but the firewall was intercepting and returning early. Most of the network team were unaware of the rule, they had just used a "pack of recommended rules" but did not truly understand what they all were. So it took a while before the support call was escalated to a skilled enough network technitian to track down the logs and identify the exact rule that had been triggered. Over 2 months of delaying a product launch and many many emails bouncing between many technical teams and managers before this was found. A waste of time.
</details>


Software Engineering Thoughts
-----------------------------

* My old software engineering blog ideas that were never published
    * [HackTime](https://github.com/calaldees/blog/blob/master/softwareEnginering/HackTime.md)
    * [CodeReviewProcess](https://github.com/calaldees/blog/blob/master/softwareEnginering/CodeReviewProcess.md)
    * [Leadership](https://github.com/calaldees/blog/blob/master/softwareEnginering/leadership.md)
    * [WhatIsABug](https://github.com/calaldees/blog/blob/master/softwareEnginering/WhatIsABug.md)



Story Prompts
========

* Competition Compliance - POST 3 step form failing - GET was resettings form
* Adult Education 403 `--` SQL injection - logs - firewall
* Genomics Split the codebase
* Mocachino
    * Mobile reroute the network domains
* Global UserLogin rework - 16times per request
